Home | Environmental Protection Agency
Skip to main content
Please enable JavaScript to use Site Search
Search for a licence or permit
CO2  Emissions from Industry and Power Generation decrease by 5.5 per cent
The EPA released its preliminary analysis of greenhouse gas emissions in 2025 from the EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS)
Registration of small wastewater discharges
In November 2025, the Irish Government approved a new regulatory approach for discharges from small-scale housing developments. European Union Regulations 2026 introduce a registration regime for certain wastewater discharges to surface water. The EPA has specified criteria that will need to be satisfied when registering a discharge.
EPA Research Call 2026
The EPA Research Call 2026 is now open for applications on April 2nd 2026, with €10.5 million in research funding available.
Browse by Environmental Topics
Climate Change
Climate change is with us now. The sooner we act, the less damage it will do to our society and environment.
Show
popular pages
Greenhouse gas emissions
Latest emission estimates
Progress to targets
EU Emissions trading system
Climate Change and You
What's happening and what impact will climate change have on Ireland?
Waste water
The EPA is the environmental regulator of Uisce Éireann (formerly Irish Water).
Show
popular pages
Urban waste water
Urban waste water priority areas
Licensing & Permitting Waste Water
Make an Environmental Complaint
EPA initiated WWDA Reviews
Waste water and You
How best to maintain your septic tank.
Waste
The EPA regulates and licences a variety of activities in the waste sector, including landfill sites.
Show
popular pages
Waste licensing
National Waste Statistics
Declaration on waste authorisations (Article 11)
Make an Environmental Complaint
Waste and You
Learn more about waste
Drinking water
The EPA regulates the quality of drinking water in Ireland and enforces standards in public supplies.
Show
popular pages
What's being done on public water supplies?
Remedial Action List
Drinking water Audits
Make an Environmental Complaint
Drinking water and You
Where does your drinking water come from?
Radiation
The EPA monitors radiation in our environment. We also regulate radioactive sources in industry, e.g. for x-rays.
Show
popular pages
Graded Authorisation
Apply to be included on the RPA register
Radiation monitoring
National Radiation Monitoring Network
Radiation and You
What is radiation and how can it affect you?
Air
The EPA manages the national air quality monitoring network. We also measure levels of air pollution.
Show
popular pages
Air quality index for health
What we monitor
Air enforcement
Make an Environmental Complaint
Air and You
See the air quality index for health, this will tell the about air in your area
Additional
things you can do
Explore a map of your local environment
Take climate action at home
Take climate action in your community
Latest
Publications and Reports
Industrial and Waste Enforcement Report 2025
High overall compliance at licensed sites in 2025
1,681 inspections, but the waste sector shows the most non‑compliance, the food and drink sector generating most odour and noise complaints, and odour and water discharges remaining key challenges.
Air Quality in Ireland 2024
Air quality in Ireland is generally good and was compliant with 2024 air quality standards, meeting all EU legal requirements.
Registration Criteria for Small Wastewater Discharges
A new regulatory approach for wastewater discharges from small-scale housing developments. The system will see wastewater from developments of up to 40 homes regulated through a registration system and compliance with General Binding Rules.
Local Authority Environmental Enforcement Performance Report 2024
This report sets out the results of the EPA’s assessment of local authority environmental enforcement performance for 2024.
Quarterly Greenhouse Gas Emissions Indicator Report 2025 Quarter 3
This is the latest EPA report on quarterly greenhouse gas emissions for Ireland to support more frequent monitoring of national and sectoral progress.
See more
Publications & Reports
Latest
News and Press Releases
Ireland’s greenhouse gas emissions from power generation and industry down by 5.5 per cent in 2025
Date released: April 09, 2026
EPA announces funding of €10.5m for new environmental and climate research
Date released: April 01, 2026
EPA reports good compliance at licensed sites, but persistent challenges remain across the food and waste sectors.
Date released: March 24, 2026
Latest
Conferences and Events
EPA Annual Circular Economy Conference 2026
Date: November 19, 2026
The EPA Circular Economy Conference 2026 will take place on 19th November in the Aviva Stadium Dublin
EPA Water Conference 2026
Date: June 17, 2026
The EPA Water Conference 2026 will take place on 17 and 18 June, 2026 in Galway and online.
EPA Annual Climate Change Conference 2026
Date: May 27, 2026
The EPA Annual Climate Change Conference "Ireland's Climate Ambition: Taking stock and looking to the future"
Frequently Asked Questions
Popular FAQ's
How far away should my well be from my septic tank?
Wells should be sited upgradient if possible and as far away as possible from wastewater treatment systems. The minimum recommended distance between a wastewater treatment system and well varies from 15m to 60m depending on the slope and soil type and is set out in the Code of Practice for new builds - Site suitability assessment.
What is the Air Quality Index for Health (AQIH)?
The EPA’s Air Quality Index for Health (AQIH) is a number from 1 to 10 that tells the public what the air quality currently is in their region, and whether this might affect the health of you or your child. A reading of 10 means the air quality is very poor and a reading of 1 to 3 inclusive means that the air quality is good.
https://www.airquality.ie
Connect with us
Connect on LinkedIn
See our YouTube Channel
Follow Us On Instagram
Contact EPA
Common issues
Asbestos
Drains or sewers
Hedgerow cutting or tree felling
Litter, dumping or burning
Noise
Septic tanks
Slurry
Water testing
Contact us
For the fastest reply, use our online forms.