Home | ESB Networks
Skip to Content
It appears JavaScript is disabled. In order for this website to function correctly you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.
How can we help you today?
Check my power status
Get connected
Get planned outage updates
Smart meters
Modify a line or equipment
Go to Services
Report a power outage
Submit a meter reading
Find my MPRN
Check my energy use
Check power supply in your area
PowerCheck provides customers with real-time fault information on all major faults. You can also report power outages and find information to be prepared in the event of a power cut.
See PowerCheck map
Go to Outages safety
Network upgrades
We’re committed to enhancing the resilience of the electricity supply to homes, farms and businesses, particularly in the areas worst affected by severe weather events as part of our Winter Resilience Plan 2025.
Learn more
Newsroom
01 April 2026
Update on Smart Meter Data Issue
On Friday March 6th, a planned software upgrade to one of our internal systems caused some smart meter readings to be processed incorrectly, this was not related to the integrity of the smart meters themselves, or the way they record energy use.
Customer communications
Read article
20 January 2026
ESB Networks complete critical infrastructure upgrade works in Portlaoise, doubling capacity for customers
ESB Networks has successfully completed a critical infrastructure project in Portlaoise which involved the uprating of two 31.5 MVA transformers to 63 MVA,  doubling capacity and enabling new customer homes, businesses, and farms to connect to the electricity network, as well as significantly reinforcing the reliability of the network in the Midlands region.
Latest news
Read article
06 February 2026
ESB Networks crews and partners travel to Portugal to support power restoration efforts following Storms Kristin and Leonardo
Storms Kristin and Leonardo have brought extensive and severe damage across Portugal and left over 1 million customers without electricity.
Latest news
Read article
06 November 2024
General safety message from ESB Networks
ESB Networks would like to remind the general public to stay safe and stay clear of our electricity infrastructure.
Safety
Read article
View all articles
Helpful content
Consultations
Through our consultations, we seek to actively inform and engage with our customers and stakeholders on specific areas and activities from across our business. We appreciate the opportunity to hear our stakeholders’ concerns, views, and expectations so that we are better informed in our decision-making and management of the electricity network.
Go to Consultations
Stakeholder & Public engagement
We know that only by listening and engaging with our stakeholders and customers can we truly reflect their needs in how we shape the future of our business and the electricity network.
Go to Stakeholder & Public engagement